We now have a special treat
Brother Stephen led of the governing body will give a talk based on a specific Bible verse
His talk is
sing out joyfully to Jehovah
Mark my words. This is a special treat
I hope I can live up to his comments
David dead it as he played on his harp
The Levites did it regularly at the temple
Jesus did it shortly before being executed
Paul and Silas did it while in stocks deep in a prison dungeon
The resurrected anointed do it as they stand before Jehovah's throne
What activity are we talking about?
We're talking about singing songs of praise to Jehovah and of course all of us want to imitate these fine Bible examples
But now how do we want to sing these songs? What approach? Well, let's go to first Chronicles chapter 15
And let's see how we want to sing these songs of praise
First Chronicles 15 verse 16
David then told the chiefs of the Levites
To appoint their brothers the singers now notice to sing out joyfully
A accompanied by musical instruments stringed instruments
harps and symbols
Now this scripture say that we should move our lips
But with no sound coming out of her mouth
Can you imagine Jesus singing like that?
Does this scripture indicate we should mumble our words
Speaking an undertone like we do sometimes when we read the Bible
No, we're told us sing out
That means obviously enthusiastically projecting our voices
Perhaps you remember a picture in the inside cover pages
Of one of our previous songbooks
It was a picture of the Levites singing
And obviously they were projecting their voices
In fact their mouths were so wide open you can almost see their tonsils
Well, good example for us
Think about this
Many worldly people will sing out worldly songs with a joyful attitude
Well much more so
Our God who is worthy of such worshipful praise
Do we want to give it to him enthusiastically?
But now let's look at a brief video
That highlights some of the history
About how Jehovah's people have always felt about singing songs of praise to Jehovah
I love singing to Jehovah
It's something that I find so personally strengthening
I think it's such a wonderful privilege to be able to praise Jehovah's name by singing
Mind you I would never be called a professional singer
We know that birds sing but they're not singing praises to Jehovah
And of course dogs bark and cats me out
But humans can really sing and praise you over with their words
And it always reminds me of the account in the book of Acts
Acts chapter 16 where it talks about the apostle Paul and Silas when they were in prison
This is but about the middle of the night
Paul and Silas were praying and praising God with song
And the prisoners were listening to them
Obviously
The songs that they sang at that time helped them to ease the pain of their very sore backs
They had been beaten
So the spiritual side of us become stronger when we sing
In our organization from the very beginning
uh
Hems were used
But then the brothers and sisters began producing their own songs and they put them into book form
Back in 1944
We released a song book that was called the Kingdom Service Songbook
And after a half a million copies have been released
At just six years later
1950 we come out with a brand new songbook
Songs to Jehovah's praise
Now no doubt many of the brothers wondered why are we doing this
But of course you see the new world translation of the Christian Greek scriptures
Had just been released in 1950
And then we've had several books that have been released down through the the decades
So it's always been a part of the modern-day worship
You know when you ponder what we've discussed thus far
You're probably beginning to ask yourself
When are we going to get our new songbook
Well, I must tell you that the song book project has proved to be more challenging
Or complex than the governing body anticipated
But nevertheless despite the challenges the complications
We're confident that we're going to be able to release this book to you within less than 12 months
In fact, we're talking about much less than 12 months
We're talking about right now the governing body is very happy to release
I don't think I had most of you fooled
We are so happy to release this new songbook entitled sing out joyfully to Jehovah
That's the SO JJ book
Brotherhood
This new songbook sing out joyfully to Jehovah
Is being provided in three formats
There's the small
The large with musical notations
And then there's in the large size only lyrics only
And you're going to be able to obtain your personal copy
electronically
In English this will be Monday October the 3rd
So we're talking about just two days from now you can go on to jw.org
Watchtower online library
jw library and you can get that copy of this beautiful song book
But now here's a question
How soon are we going to sing songs from the new song book
Well you'll be happy to know that beginning January just three much from now
English-speaking congregations will begin to sing these new songs
And you'll be happy to know too
That the governing body has arranged for a new provision to come along with a new songbook
We're going to have the lyrics in video format
Now we enjoyed right here having the lyrics on the screen and we enjoyed during the summer conventions
The regional and the special conventions
Instead of having to look down and try to look at your songbook and your tablet
We were able to hold our heads erect
And sing out joyfully to Jehovah
Well, you'll be able to do that in the congregation
But now we talked about receiving our songbook electronically
And we noticed that many of you are using electronic devices in order to receive the publications and to use them
And this is commendable
This saves the organization considerable fines
But what if you want hard copy of the new songbook
Well, we're happy to inform you that you can order through the congregation
hard copy
Within a few days English-speaking congregations and also several other language-speaking congregations
Will receive a letter telling you how you may submit the order
And we're happy to inform you too that the hard copy
This songbook will have, whether it's the small or the large
It'll have the same beautiful gray deluxe cover that our revised New World Translation Bible has
So what a beautiful complement
The songbook will be to the Bible for those that use hard copy
You will truly enjoy using the beautiful gray twins
But now we talked about English mostly
What about other languages?
Well, translations are being made into other languages as we speak
And as soon as possible these other language releases will be made
In fact, I've been informed
That there'll be quite a number of other languages will be able to release the songbook in that language within less than 12 months
And this time I'm not teasing
But additional information will be provided as soon as available
But now let's discuss some interesting information about the new songbook
First we're going to talk about the composition of the songs
And then a little bit about the structure of the songbook
But now you're probably thinking
Why is brother's plane not presenting this information
Why is brother let trying to present this
Well, I can understand your question
I had the same question
But the truth is all seven members of the governing body
Love very much singing songs of praise to Jehovah
Of course some are a lot better singers than the rest of us
And all of us are happy that we don't have student singing assignments on the midweek meeting
Because we wouldn't want to send the brothers running for their earplugs
But now I've got to get serious
Let's talk about the composition of the songs
Well, here's an interesting point rather than request contributed songs from various songwriters
The governing body assigned a composer
And a lyricist's team to work specifically on the project
And then the governing body closely supervised that team
For example providing subject themes
For songs that would be very relevant to our meetings assemblies conventions and the field ministry
And the team worked very hard specifically crafting each song
According to that direction
Here's another point as you can imagine
The revised new world translation resulted in changing a lot of the lyrics
A replacement of different words and expressions
Just a few examples most references to she all seed long suffering
Have been replaced
The song long suffering is now exercise patience
The expression loving kindness is now loyal love
Time and definite has been replaced with expressions such as forevermore or eternal life
Here's another point
Doctrinal refinements of course affect this some of the lyrics
Just one example
The expanded explanation of the meaning of Jehovah's name
resulted in opening the door to more application
To Jehovah causing to become
Here's another point
An effort was made to have less direct counsel in the songs
So rather than some feeling awkward as they were singing
Prezes that they were maybe giving counsel to others as they were singing
Well, we've changed that
That has been taken out
Here's another thing there certain awkward expressions
Have been removed from the songs just one example
One of our current songs
There was an expression that made it appear that single people are probably lonely
Well, we took that out
Here's another detail
And we present this in a form of a caution
Be careful when you're singing from the new song book
Because the majority of the songs these older songs
Have had lyrics adjusted
So if you just sing from your previous memory bank
You're going to find yourself off and in trouble
But now just a few comments about the structure of the song book
An effort has been made to put the songs in subject order
And there are 15 categories now
And the categories are listed in the index in the front of the song book
The first 12 songs
appropriately are under the category Jehovah
And these are songs of direct praise to Jehovah
Our songs about his name are his qualities
Meeting together
That's another category
Songs about our meeting together and worshiping together
category godly qualities
And included among other songs in this section
Our songs that develop each one of the aspects of the footage of the Holy Spirit
Mentioning Galatians 5, 22 and 23
And they're developed in the order in the song book
That they're listed in that scripture
So that's very helpful
But now here's something we'd like to say regarding the structure
There is no significance to the song numbers
Assigned to each song
Over the years some have worked very hard
Try to figure out the significance of the song numbers
For example
Many concluded
It wasn't just coincidence
That the song be forgiving was song number 77
Similarly
The song where Jehovah's Witnesses
Many thought it was no coincidence that that song was song number 1931
I mean 31
But we want to tell you up front
There is no significance to the numbering
And for that matter
There was not in the current song book
The numbers are random
With the songs placed in the category they fit best
And where they fit best in regard to the engraving layout
Now here is another thought
Three of the older songs have been removed
From the new song book
And quite a number have been totally revised with new subjects
For example
The song the scene of this world is changing
Has now been totally revised
To a more positive subject
Keep working, watching and waiting
The song making our way successful
Is now life depends on God's word
The song formerly content with God's good gifts
Which had limited use
Is now teaching the word of God
A much more practical subject for our meetings or our field
Ministry
Now here's one more point regarding the structure
Many of the songs have been reformatted
And spread out over more pages
Why?
Well for one thing
It gives more space for other languages
That need more space
To be able to put the lyrics
Under the musical notes
Another advantage by spreading them out
It makes it easier to read the music
In the case of those who enjoy playing
The songs on piano
But now let's look at another video
And this one
Shows us some interesting facts
About the making of our new song book
The governing bodies support for this project was unanimous
One of the reasons we felt it was especially important
Was because of the revised new world translation
It was important for us to change the songs as well
So that all the terminology in the revised version would match the songs
In our audience we have some of our brothers and sisters who have the heavenly hope
And of course the majority in our audience
Are looking forward to life everlasting right here on the earth
So the words of our song would have to include both groups
There are a few songs that were very really used in meetings and assemblies
Because of the subject
They may have been relevant subjects years back but not anymore
So those songs the same melody is being used
But you'll find there's a brand new theme
In our song book in recent years there has definitely been an effort
To have more diversity of style
It really helps all of us
No matter what our background from what part of the world we come from
To be unified in our worship
When we get the music from the arranger
We have to format it so it fits properly to the page
As it will appear in the song book
We supply the branches with music only notation
And this way they can pour in the translated lyrics
Its songs really are probably the most difficult translation project that you can handle
Take an English verse like listen or bay and be blessed
It's not difficult to express that idea in another language
But the music there has only seven notes
So the challenge is to express those ideas and make them fit into those
Said with those seven notes
So for all of these reasons this is the work for a lyricist
Someone who can rewrite the song
And the make sure that it conveys the right ideas
The right mood
But at the same time that it is poetic
That it touches the heart of those who are going to sing it
What a wonderful thing to think
That worldwide in hundreds of languages
Our brothers and sisters are having the same very experience
Being able to use their words to praise Jehovah in song
The government body feels very strongly about singing
So that's why they actually created a cover
That looks just like any world translation
The songbook has been organized into subject order
There are more songs in the book
There's 151 songs
But also the songs have been spread out a little bit more
That's mainly for translation
The websites will have easier navigation tools
To help us to find the song number we're looking for
So we can listen to the song or the vocal rendition
While the phrase that is to be sung during that portion of the song
We'll highlight as the song plays through
We need to take the time right now to learn these new songs
And then to sing them
You know, sing them all the time
Sing them when we're working around the house
Sing them when we're in the car
Sing them when we come together for social gatherings with our brothers
They have the power to strengthen us
It's showing respect for Jehovah when we actually stand there
With the congregation
Sing with the congregation
It brings the congregation together and worship
So when we combine how we feel
When we sing from our hearts
We can be sure that Jehovah will accept that as appreciation
Well, I think this scripture in Psalm 104
In verse 33 really reflects the feelings of all of Jehovah's people
When it says
I will sing to Jehovah throughout my life
I will sing praises to my God as long as I live
That's the desire that we all have
To be able to sing praises to Jehovah forever
Obviously, our new songbook
Is a gift from the giver of every good gift
Every perfect present
You brothers and sisters are going to love singing from the new songbook
So by all means
Use it to the full
Use it completely to sing out joyfully to Jehovah
We told you it would be a special treat
Not only was brother, let's delivery special but we have
The special treat of a new songbook now
And we add it to the long line of songbooks
That have come before
Some of you can reach back many years with various different songbooks
The songbook is to describe it praise worthy
You see that in your notes?
What does that mean? Highly commendable
That's our songbook
Now if that was special this next part is truly unique
I do not remember ever hearing an interview
From this unique group of interviewees
Brother Ralph Walls, a helper for the personnel committee of the governing body
Will take the lead in the video interview entitled
Jehovah cares for and strengthens faithful ones
Video please
Jehovah's care for each of his faithful servants
Is felt especially during times of difficulty
The Apostle Paul experienced what he called a thorn in the flesh
I'd like to read to you what he said about that
In 2 Corinthians chapter 12 I'll read portions of verses 9 and 10
Speaking of the Lord he said
But he said to me
My undeserved kindness is sufficient for you
For my power is being made perfect in weakness
Verse 10 So I take pleasure in weaknesses
And difficulties for Christ for when I am weak
Then I am powerful
While it's the responsibility of each one to give balanced attention to their health
Still there are problems that arise
Therefore the governing body has made arrangements for all branches to assist
Special full-time servants with their health care needs
And that is within the circumstances of each branch
The United States branch is privileged to have a group of dedicated brothers and sisters
Who render such care
We're going to talk to nine of our physicians serving at Bethel
And we're going to introduce them alphabetically
First we have Brother Samuel Raibowachi
Who's been serving us for 11 years at Bethel
Brother Jack Carlton who's been with us for 40 years
It's hard to believe because Jack claims he's 39
Anna Marie Correa who's been with us for three years
Enrique Corvallon for eight years
And Brother Walter Ferguson for 30 years
Luis Garza 26 years
Brother James Harper for 26 years
Brother James Howard for 28 years
And Olga Manson for 15 years
What a wonderful representative group
But I'd like to ask you dear folks to share with us your experience of learning the truth
And how that impacted your profession
And Brother Carlton would you please start off with it
The truth was introduced through the door to door ministry
I was doing research at the National Institutes of Health in Washington D.C. and the Cancer Institute
And planning to go on into neurosurgery
But the knock came in the door the brother came in
And he presented the kingdom hope from Genesis to Revelation
And my wife and I said that's marvelous
To live forever on earth and have no sickness
And enjoy peace and security forever
What a wonderful hope
And then he had to do that
You know that God has a name
And we didn't know that so now to be to know Jehovah personally
It touched us and that's all it took
From that time on we wanted to be in full-time service
And aid Bethel if we could in the future
Very interesting, thank you
And Sister Correa, Anna Marie, what about yourself?
Well I started to study the Bible in my last year of medical school
And then went on to work part time as a doctor
To be able to regular pioneer with my husband from 1997 till 2009
In 2009 I stopped practicing medicine
To expend my ministry in the Hindi congregation in Montreal
Until I was called to Bethel in 2013
Wonderful and we're glad you're here too
Walter, share with us your experience please
I was contacted in the Dorded Orwork in Buffalo, New York
I had a very good effective Bible teacher
Who was able to help to revive in me a spiritual interest
And I made it a formal study in my last years in medical school
And it was baptized not long after I graduated from medical school
Excellent, thank you
Luis Garza from Monterey, Mexico
Tell us about your experience
My first contact with the truth was after I had been practicing medicine for 16 years
A patient of mine came with a sore throat and two magazines and she was a jihad witness
At that time I was having some
Scary experiences where the demons were involved although I was not looking for them
And I was endlessly praying to God for help
I didn't know his name but I knew he existed
And at that time the patient came and one of the magazines had on the front cover
With big letters the word spiritism
So first I said I don't want anything with that
I already have enough problems but she said this is to protect yourself
Not to practice it so I took the magazines read them and
After that a local elder started studying the Bible with me and that's how I came into the truth
Beautiful and we're so glad to have you serving us at Bethel
and brother Harper
I requested a Bible study immediately after finishing high school at age 18 and
Because of the rigorous pre-medical program that I was involved with it was difficult to continue my study
I restarted a few years later
And my formal graduation from medical school was one week after my baptism
When I came to Bethel I offered to come one week a month
commuting from Atlanta, Georgia
And so I did that for
Six months they asked me to come to Bethel
full-time and I did that six months later and
Have been at Bethel ever since
That's an interesting sideline you
Commuted from Atlanta, Georgia for a year
Beautiful and brother Howard help us with the situation that you were faced with when you were introduced to the truth
When my wife and I learned the truth and
Immediately that changed our attitude towards
What was important in life and I was able to
Cut down to part-time work because it was just really a means of supporting my family then and auxiliary pioneer on a regular basis and then
Planning to become a regular pioneer, but then in 1983
Bethel
Call us and and invited us to come in for me to serve as a medical doctor because there was a great need
Within three months we had a solar house. I left my practice and
And with our ten-year-old daughter we came to broken Bethel
and today that
Daughter is a Bethel sister married to a responsible brother
They're serving here together. So the families together in their service
We appreciate that now. We want to move into an area that's a little bit more sobering
You deal with the family who are very sick sometimes terminally ill
Sam right. How are you affected personally when you are exposed to that? Well
Seven as a Bethel physician
Definitely is a unique privilege, but also a challenging one
because unlike physicians on the outside
Who are detached from their patients?
We have an attachment with our patients who are also our family members
and to even make it more difficult
It's when you have to endure them through
Terminal illnesses or even be the one to give them the diagnosis
bad diagnosis grip one and then
And when you've gone through all the difficult situation with them to be the one to pronounce them as clinically dead
You know even though we know that we're going to see them back in the new world. So I can really rent your heart out
For me
Coming to Bethel was a complete new experience in medical care
The you're treating essentially your brothers and sisters that they become your family
So your emotional involvement and commitment is it's much deeper
Uh, I recall the words of my father. He said a physician tends to treat his patients with his brain or his head
Uh, but he treats his family with a heart
And here where in this duality that we have patients but our patients are our family
The brothers and sisters
So how to deal with that? It's very difficult
So one of the things that really helps me to be able to work with this situation is with Paul said in collotions 414
About Luke and he was the beloved physician. So there are two words in there
Physician medical care. It was given the medical care
But as a in a loving way
So that can be done and that really inspires me to be able to provide to my patients the best
Medical care with tender affection
As physicians we don't want to see
Uh, people suffering
And uh, uh, whenever we are dealing with our dear brothers and sisters
It's different. It's our family and treating our family is more difficult
Talking to patients about what they are facing pain, suffering and even terminal incurable diseases
This makes my occupation stressful and emotionally charged
Especially when I have to break bad news
But um, at those times, be seeking Jehovah in prayer asking for strength and wisdom
Um, also having the support of my overseers at the infirmary
They accompany me sometimes to
Talk about critical issues to the patients
And they pray even for that for me and for them
So even though it's stressful
I never feel overwhelmed
Hmm, very interesting
Now going in another direction on the other side of this
Uh, how do you stay positive
Despite the negative circumstances that we've just talked about
Walter, how do you do that?
Yes, Ralph. Uh, heart disease, breast cancer and prostate cancer are still the leading causes of death in the Bethel family
In such cases, uh, we stay positive by um
sharing our absolute confidence in the nearness of Jehovah's promises
And that tends to be a two-way
interchange
We attempt to encourage others, but we are also encouraged by many of these very mature people that we're working with and and they see things very clearly
And um, we also rejoice because we're able to participate in some of the positive outcomes for the greater majority
Of the individuals that suffer illness for example
Majority of our patients with breast cancer are cured more than 90 percent
And uh in prostate cancer the majority are cured
But there's also a large portion that live a long time with their disease of productive life with their disease
So that uh helps us uh the positive outcomes
But also with heart disease we're now having much better outcomes people are living more productive lives and
Actually living longer
Additionally the Bethel environment is a very positive place to develop spiritual qualities such as this and we get help from the Bethel table
they deal with um
Faith based on facts and it helps up
Persons who are with a scientific orientation. It helps us to know that our faith is very sound
I think of three factors
The one is having a loving spouse nilus all of it and the family always supportive of being me available 24 hours a day
Seven days a week to the Bethel family
And then the love that we have as a team our nurses all those that work in the infirmary
We have such a bond of love between us and the patient it it sustains us and and that's a beautiful thing to see
And then Jehovah spirit the joy we get from that spirit the joy we pass on to our patients the trust we have in Jehovah
The security we have and that powerful force the greatest the universe helps me through as it does the patients
And I think he speaks for all of you when you say you really appreciate the support the nurses the PCA's
all of the staff uh give you i've heard you comment on that many times. Thank you brother jack
Let's go to brother Harper. How would you respond to this?
keeping positive in spite of the things you have to deal with?
I focus on the positive uh the
things that we can do for the patient to make them
Have a better quality of life and that gives us some personal satisfaction
The other thing is that we concentrate on the positive by means of what the scriptures tells us
About the fact that all of these things only temporary. I look at uh Jesus
uh
Even though he was about to cure
Lazarus and he knew what he was going to do
He still broke out crying and why did he do that?
Because he felt the pain that they were enduring and we feel it too. So it's okay to cry
But we know that the end result will be for the benefit of everybody
Hope
I think just the fact that I
Remember that this situation is temporary
Uh the hillness of the friend and one verse that I really really like is uh
Revelation 21 verse 4 where at the end it says um
All things have passed away
So we won't remember any of those things although it's hard right now
It's not something we will live with in the future
The thing that really helps me and great deal is is to see the the faith and the love for Jehovah in
Patients who have a serious very painful
Terminal illness I see that they love Jehovah and that's crystal clear like a diamond that uh that
Love and faith in Jehovah and it really strengthens my faith no matter how much they're suffering
And they know that they're going to be resurrected. There's no doubt whatsoever in their minds that in in the words of
Hosea 13-14
Where are your stings? Oh death. There's one
sister of
longtime missionary who was dying of a very painful
cancer rapidly progressive cancer and she'd been healthy all her life until then and she had a complete faith in the resurrection and
One of her last words expressions was uh, I never died before
I didn't know it'd be so hard
But she knew what was coming after that
Hmm
That's a touching experience
Last question. Can you share your comments about looking forward to the time when
You'll no longer have your jobs
In the new world we won't need this work. Well, what do you think about that? The rye
Well, I particularly look forward to a time that I wouldn't have to be working up in the night, you know to care for
Dear ones who are in pain
Know back and have the time to enjoy a time with my dear wife in the new world and pursue skills as drawing painting
Designing beautiful buildings and you know enjoying the art and music into eternity with my wife and I look
Forward very much to that so I can easily let this go
For several years rye has been asking to work in the art department
So you'll have your day
So promise
Brother Carlton, please
New world no more physician
That will be a wonderful day
Uh, there I think I look forward to those who haven't been able to help
Then I can welcome back I'll be young and they'll be young and that'll be a beautiful time
But the peace and security that the world holds see the creation the the birth sounds of birds nothing man made interfering with
noises
But seeing the animals play and learning about the the plants and having my own garden
Family had together doing these things
Sister Anna Marie
We are often asked to imagine ourself in the new system
And for me, it's never been like a specific house or a place
But it's always been to know that
Everybody wakes up in the morning. They're happy. They don't have any pain
They're ready for a full day of activity for me. That's the new system and I'm ready to go there
Thank you and in reekay Corvallon, please
Here in this side of the of life we can say
We
Treat and take care of our friends
They could be an illness severe minor
But uh the end is all death
So
On the new system what I'm looking for is that it's not going to be any illness or diseases and on top of that we're all to
See the ones who we have left because they are gone into death come back
Not leaving
But coming back coming back to life
So I'm looking forward to be able to be eventually one of the
Reception committee
Yeah, waking and
Receiving those brothers and sisters and family members dear family members that we have lost in death
Beautiful beautiful thought Walter
no more
Doctering new world. What do you say?
I don't think I'll have any problem with that at all in fact
We have so many beautiful brothers and sisters that your hopes created with mine said
We now be able to employ them in more useful activities
But I think for me the most important thing I think would be that
in the new system
I'll be able to
Learn and associate more with Jehovah
Without the distractions we have today and I think that's going to be
Marvelous hope to open up for for everyone and I certainly look forward to that
profound thought. Thank you and
Dear brother Luis Garza
I will be extremely happy to give up the practice of medicine in the new world with all these promises that Jehovah
Has made for us
We will not need the practice of medicine
Thank you
And James Harper
I look so forward to the fulfillment of Jehovah's promises. I just can't wait and actually I look forward to giving up this assignment
But many people in the past have said well you won't have a job
I'm not concerned because Jehovah won't let me go unemployed. He'll give me a very interesting and challenging assignment. I'm sure
Very good. Thank you and brother Howard
peace
nature animals music
happy people
All loving Jehovah and loved by him
Working together to serve him. I just want to be there and sister Olga Benson
When Jesus was on earth
He did powerful works of curing the sick and resurrecting the dead
And to me that is an evidence
That Jehovah and Jesus are very interested in our health
And also that they are better doctors than I could ever be
So I can't wait to be out of a job
And I think every one of us agree with every one of you
We yearn for the day when you will not be doctors
Yeah
But in the meantime we want to thank you
Uh, not just for your expressions today, but for your
dedicated view of your sacred service at Bethel
As physicians
In fact, we're grateful for the entire medical staff and I know when we talked about this before
You dear folks and your comments applauded
Those who support you and your work
We appreciate that you're willing to use your training not for selfish pursuits
But for kingdom interests
But even more than that we appreciate
What we've seen here among you and that's your deep
spirituality
It's so evident and and we we thank you for that
So you've given not only your skills, but as Paul mentions
And first that's only in two eight
You remember there? He says we've given our very souls
And that's what you dear folks have done most of all
Who do you think we thank
Jehovah
why
Because he cares for faithful ones
And he strengthens such ones including yourselves
I'd like to read what Paul said
In one of his letters to a congregation. I'd like for you dear folks to hear it in the context
Of all of us saying this about you
We always thank God
What do we mention all of you
For we continually remember your faithful work
Your loving labor and your endurance
And all of us you're in for the time when
No resident in the entire earth will say I am sick
Thank you very much
That was indeed a unique interview
And we appreciate their love for Jehovah and their love for their fellow servants
And the loving way in which they use their talents
It's also unique in that they will all lose their jobs in the near future
They seem to be happy for that though
I would just like to mention that this interview was featuring the United States branches medical provisions
While it's true that all branches around the world have arrangements in place to care for their Bethel families
Medical needs
The doctors interviewed just now take care of over 4,500 members of the Bethel family here in the United States
including long-term
members of the family and
temporary volunteers
The cost to provide outside doctor care for that many people would be very very expensive
Especially since medical costs in the United States are so high
However, these doctors just interviewed received the same small monthly allowance as all other Bethel family members
This has saved hundreds of thousands of dollars of contributed funds each year
So we would like to thank the doctors for their fine spirit and
All of those working with the infirmaries for their skills and efficiency
But above all we thank them for their warm brotherly affection
When we are
Often filling our worse
You're a good medical caregivers
And we want you to know that you do good work
You're definitely needed
For now
Oh, by the way if any of these doctors
Are any other doctor
Should ask you to please stick out your tongue
Don't try to swallow it stick it out
They're just trying to help us
Even though you're not in Tibet
Well, it's time for you to stand that is if you're able
And sing out joyfully to Jehovah
Since none of you have the new songbook with this new numbering system
We're going to use the song numbers from the song book you currently have access to
It is one of our new songs the number we have been using is song number
152 our strength our hope our confidence
We now will enjoy a number of talks from members of the governing body
Brother David explain is ready to present his talk
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good
Brother explain our ears are ready to hear what your tongue has to say
We'll see
Jehovah
Created all of us with some remarkable abilities
He gave us the ability to solve problems and plan for the future
And he also gave us the ability to carry out our plans
Now how does he want us to use our abilities
To benefit others
Why?
Because he knows that when we are serving others we're happy
God loves us and he wants us to be happy
Now at the same time Jehovah realizes that we all have limitations
He realizes it but sometimes we don't
And so all of us have to learn to set reasonable goals for ourselves
And then to rejoice to be happy when we have achieved these goals now some really have to learn that
They're never satisfied
They never have enough money
They never have enough service privileges
They always want more more more and what's the result?
They're never happy
We have to be able to rejoice
over what we can do and not fret over what we cannot do
Now if our goals are in line with Jehovah's purpose
We could be sure that he will back us up
In fact, the writer of the 37th song was convinced of this
Here's a man who had personal experience with Jehovah
And he knew how Jehovah would back him up if he put his trust in him
Let's read a song 37 verse 3
And here we see that the writer is speaking to us from personal experience
He says trust in Jehovah and do what is good
Well, that's the theme of this talk, isn't it?
Reside in the earth and act with faithfulness
The 37th song was written by David of Bethlehem
And apparently near the end of his life
Because he wrote I was once young and now I am old
Now David was only 70 when he died
So I think some of us would object to that characterization
I can just about hear brother heard say who are you calling old
We can still hear crickets chirping and birds singing
But let's say that David was speaking from his own experience
And he's sharing his experience as a mature man with us
He wants us to benefit from the things that happened to him in his lifetime
And what a life David led
So for the next few minutes we're going to review a few highlights of David's life
And we're going to see how David's life
Was really directed by his trust in Jehovah
At Jehovah God was guiding him every step of the way and it's a real benefit for us
Now do you realize that when David was born
Saul had been reigning over Israel for 10 years already
But Jehovah wasn't pleased with Saul
In fact a much earlier he had sent the prophet Samuel to tell the king
Jehovah will find a man agreeable to his heart
And Jehovah will commission him as a leader over his people
Because you did not obey what Jehovah commanded you
Now that was Jehovah's promise to Saul
But he didn't carry it out right away
He didn't provide for Saul's replacement right away
In fact it was probably more than a quarter century
Before David was anointed as the future king of Israel
And maybe Saul thought that Jehovah had forgotten all about replacing him
But Jehovah hadn't and David was anointed
Now it was sometime after that
That a Philistine from Gath the giant Goliath challenged the battle lines of the living God
Choose for yourselves a man that he might fight with me
Young David was visiting the camp and he overheard this
And he couldn't understand why none of the Israelite soldiers were willing to take up the challenge
And so he expressed his concern
And his oldest brother Eliab heard what David was saying
And he rebuked his younger brother
Well older brothers have a tendency of doing that don't they
We read about the conversation in 1 Samuel chapter 17
And we're going to make a point with this
1 Samuel chapter 17
verses 28 and 29
When his oldest brother Eliab heard him speak to the man
He became angry with David and said
Why have you come down and with whom did you leave those few sheep in the wilderness?
I well know your presumptuousness and the bad intentions of your heart
You came down just to see the battle
To this David said what have I done now?
I was only asking a question
Isn't the wording of that realistic?
Isn't that what you would hear in your own family?
Now what was the problem with Eliab?
He was viewing David according to the flesh
To Eliab David was still his pesky little brother
But he should have known better why?
Because Eliab had been present earlier
When Samuel had anointed David as the future king of Israel
Now the current king of Israel wasn't willing to take up the challenge that
Eliab threw out
So wasn't it only reasonable that the next in line to the throne
Should take up the challenge?
There was nothing presumptuous about what David was doing
And I'll picture this
Here you have on the one hand David
A shepherd
Probably in his teens
And on the other
Goliath saw a seasoned warrior
Probably in his late 60s
And we have to ask what did David have that Saul was lacking?
Trust
Trust in Jehovah
David was going to work with Jehovah on this assignment
But David realized that trust alone was not enough
You could trust that Jehovah to raise up someone else to fight Goliath
But that wouldn't do any good
David wanted to trust in Jehovah
But he also wanted to do something about it
To do something good
But didn't David run the risk of being killed by Goliath?
Not a chance
Why?
Because Jehovah had had David anointed to rule over Israel
And David hadn't become king yet
Do you think that an uncircumcised Philistine like Goliath
Could stand in the way of Jehovah
Fulfilling his purpose?
Never
Never would that happen
Neither Goliath
Nor Saul
Nor anyone else was going to prevent David
From becoming the king
He would live
As long as he was faithful to Jehovah
David had complete trust in Jehovah
And his trust was rewarded
So he was again drawing on personal experience
If we turn back to Psalm 37
We'll be reading quite a bit from Psalm 37 now
So you can keep your Bibles open there
He's again drawing on personal experience
When he writes what we read in verse 5
So that's Psalm 37 verse 5
Commit your way to Jehovah
Relay on him
And he will act in your behalf
Now, the Philistines were sworn enemies of Israel
But David had enemies closer to home
And he could have become emittered
To realize that intimate associates of his
And even family members had betrayed him
But on the whole, David was a spiritual man
And we might ask
How does a spiritual man handle betrayal
Notice verse 8
He says, let go of anger
And abandon rage
Do not become upset
And turn to doing evil
Now, why could David adopt this attitude
When he was being betrayed
He had a warm personal relationship with Jehovah God
He knew his God
He knew that Jehovah hears everything
He sees everything
He knew that God cares
And notice Psalm 37 18
David writes, Jehovah is aware
Of what the blameless go through
Isn't that reassuring?
And their inheritance will last forever
Now David was a strong man
A valiant warrior
We recall when David would return from battle
That the women would sing
Saul has killed his thousands
David
His tens of thousands
But David did not rely on his military prowess
In dealing with his enemies
He turned to Jehovah
And we find evidence of that in verses 12 and 13
Of the 37th Psalm
David writes, the wicked man plots against the righteous
He grinds his teeth at him
But Jehovah will laugh at him
For he knows that his day will come
So there's always this sense with David
That whatever is happening
Jehovah sees it
Jehovah is observing it
And Jehovah is going to step in
In due time
Very encouraging
And so often in the Psalms
We've been reading the Psalms
Now in our Bible reading
And haven't you noticed so often in the Psalms
That this strong man
This rugged man, David
Beseach his Jehovah to give him a way of escape
From his enemies
Know a lot of people in this country
Will think that that was a coward's act
In this country there are so many people who say
Don't give in
Don't back down
Stand your ground
Buy a weapon
Keep it by your bedside
Not David
David
Took comfort in what we read in verse 28 of Psalm 37
Jehovah
Loves justice
So he placed his case before Jehovah God
David had to struggle with his conscience
On more than one occasion
Do you remember what happened when
David was running away from Saul
And he came to a Himalach the priest
Now a Himalach didn't know that David was a fugitive
And David wasn't interested in letting him know that
Instead he told the priest
The king instructed me to do something
But he said
Do not let anyone know anything about the mission on which I am sending you
Well, that wasn't true
Then David asked for a man for a bread for his men
And the priest was happy to give him bread and provisions
Saul found out about it
And he was furious
He directed that a Himalach
And his household
Be put to death
And in all
85 priests
were slaughtered
A Himalach was deceived
He thought he was helping an emissary of King Saul
Do you think he would have been so willing to help if he had known the true situation
Maybe not
When those 85 priests are resurrected
I think David is going to have a little explaining to do
Well, was David conscience stricken
You better believe it
He told a Himalach's only surviving son
I am personally responsible for the death of everyone in your father's house
How do you live with that?
How do you live with being responsible for the death of so many people
What could David do
What was done was done
He couldn't change the past
Would he become paralyzed with guilt
overwhelmed by feelings of worthlessness and become inactive in Jehovah's service
Not David
What he could do was protect the last remaining member of the house of a Himalach
And that's exactly what he did
As we know there were other conscience matters
David committed adultery with Basheba and had her husband Yeraya killed
So he sinned against Jehovah
He sinned against Yeraya
And he sinned against
His other wives
Imagine poor Abigail
She'd been rescued from one bad marriage and now her new husband had betrayed her
When his sins came to light
How did David react
Well, here's what he could not do
He could not resurrect Yeraya
But he could sincerely repent of his sins and he did
And in turn the prophet Nathan told him
Jehovah forgives your sin
What else could David do?
He could have faith
Faith that Jehovah really meant it when he said that he forgave his servant
Well, what about us
In some cases we may not be able to undo our mistakes in our current lifetime
We may have to live with the consequences
But here's what we can do
We can take Jehovah at his word
Trusting that he will support us through difficult times
Even if the difficult times are of our own making
David allowed Jehovah to help him recover spiritually
I'm going to repeat that
How did he do that?
Well one way was by humbly accepting the council of an experienced elder the prophet Nathan
His repentance was sincere
It was no it was no facade about it
We know that
We know that David
Repented with a good attitude
Because later David and Basheba even named one of their sons Nathan
And you don't do that if you resent someone
He took the council with a good attitude
David
Learned from his mistakes and he kept on doing what was good
Now he may have been thinking of himself when he wrote what we read at some 37
23 and 24
Jehovah guides the steps of a man when he finds pleasure in his way
Although he may fall he will not be hurled down
For Jehovah supports him by the hand
And David felt that support on many occasions
Well how can we learn from David's example
If we sin
We have to let Jehovah help us recover
And more often than not he'll use the elders for that purpose
What about true faithful parents whose child has gone astray
David would understand your sorrow
The sleepless nights the tears the heartache the worry
One of his own sons Amnon raped his daughter Tamar
Another of his sons Absalom killed Amnon and then fled the country for three years
Finally the Bible says David longed to go to Absalom
For he had become reconciled to the death of Amnon
So he called him back
You might say in effect that Absalom got a three-year time out for murder
Did he appreciate the mercy?
No, he did not
He tried to take the throne from David conspired against his own father
And you'll wonder
What was he thinking
Because at the time he was plotting against David
He must have known that Jehovah had declared that it was Solomon who was going to succeed his father and not Absalom
He must have known that did he really think that he could frustrate Jehovah's purpose
We could Absalom was finally put to death
And David was devastated
The poor young man
It seems he had a weak spot for his wicked sons
You know when we think of permissive parents we often think of high priest Eli
And his sons Hoffnay and Phineas
But when you think about it David was a bit permissive himself
And you wonder if Solomon wasn't thinking of his own half brothers
When he encouraged parents to use the rod
Now David couldn't force his wicked sons to respect Jehovah's standards
But there was something he could do
He had a faithful son at home Solomon
And so David and Bathsheba could lavish Solomon with the love and affection that he deserved and also help him to grow spiritually
And they obviously did because at Proverbs 4 and verse 3 we read these are Solomon's words
I was a true son to my father
And the one especially loved by my mother and then he added
He taught me
So David obviously was teaching his son to grow spiritually
Now it doesn't always happen that way
Consider this true to life scenario
A brother and sister have two sons
One leaves the truth and the other remains faithful
The parents are heartbroken
And like David they go into mourning for their son
And that's completely understandable
But we have to ask
What about the son at home who has remained faithful
What about the son who has never given his parents a moment's grief
Will he continue to get the love and affection that he so richly deserves
Or will it be all about his brother
Many of our modern day fellow believers have demonstrated their trust in Jehovah
One brother who remained faithful till his death in 2015 said this
Life is unpredictable at times
Uncertain and even hard to deal with
But Jehovah blesses those who lean on him and his advice
Pray to be as productive and as active in Jehovah's service as you can be
And notice this focus on what you can do
Not or what you cannot do
That excellent advice is being followed by traveling overseers
Who are transitioning into other forms of service
It's also being applied by long-time members of the Bethel family
Who are no longer serving as department overseers
They are grateful to Jehovah for what they can do and they focus on that
As this system of things that de-generates from bad to worse
We can expect difficult times
When that coalition of nations known as Gog of May Gog launches its final attack on God's people
It will seem that there is no way out
Our most formidable weapon at that time will be our faith
And so brothers it's fitting
That our year text for 2017 should be
Some
Verse 3
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good
Thank you very much brother explain. We'll remember that talk at least until the end of next year
Your talk was well spoken as usual